README.md, before:

# Metasploitable3

Metasploitable3 is a VM that is built from the ground up with a large amount of security vulnerabilities. It is intended to be used as a target for testing exploits with [metasploit](https://github.com/rapid7/metasploit-framework).

Metasploitable3 is released under a BSD-style license. See COPYING for more details.

## Quick-start

To use the prebuilt images provided at https://app.vagrantup.com/rapid7/ create a new local metasploitable workspace:

Linux users:
```
mkdir metasploitable3-workspace
cd metasploitable3-workspace
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rapid7/metasploitable3/master/Vagrantfile && vagrant up
```
Windows users:
```
mkdir metasploitable3-workspace
cd metasploitable3-workspace
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rapid7/metasploitable3/master/Vagrantfile" -OutFile "Vagrantfile"
vagrant up
```

Or clone this repository and build your own box.

## Building Metasploitable 3
System Requirements:
* OS capable of running all of the required applications listed below
* VT-x/AMD-V Supported Processor recommended
* 65 GB Available space on drive
* 4.5 GB RAM

Requirements:

* [Packer](https://www.packer.io/intro/getting-started/install.html)
* [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/installation/)
* [Vagrant Reload Plugin](https://github.com/aidanns/vagrant-reload#installation)
* [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads), libvirt/qemu-kvm, or vmware (paid license required), or parallels (paid license required)
* Internet connection

### To build automatically:

1. - On **Linux/OSX** run `./build.sh windows2008` to build the Windows box or `./build.sh ubuntu1404` to build the Linux box. If /tmp is small, use `TMPDIR=/var/tmp ./build.sh ...` to store temporary packer disk images under /var/tmp.
   - On **Windows**, open powershell terminal and run `.\build.ps1 windows2008` to build the Windows box or `.\build.ps1 ubuntu1404` to build the Linux box. If no option is passed to the script i.e. `.\build.ps1`, then both the boxes are built.
2. If both the boxes were successfully built, run `vagrant up` to start both. To start any one VM, you can use:
    - `vagrant up ub1404` : to start the Linux box
    - `vagrant up win2k8` : to start the Windows box
3. When this process completes, you should be able to open the VM within VirtualBox and login. The default credentials are U: `vagrant` and P: `vagrant`.

### To build manually:

1. Clone this repo and navigate to the main directory.
2. Build the base VM image by running `packer build --only=<provider> ./packer/templates/windows_2008_r2.json` where `<provider>` is your preferred virtualization platform. Currently `virtualbox-iso`, `qemu`, and `vmware-iso` providers are supported. This will take a while the first time you run it since it has to download the OS installation ISO.
3. After the base Vagrant box is created you need to add it to your Vagrant environment. This can be done with the command `vagrant box add packer/builds/windows_2008_r2_*_0.1.0.box --name=rapid7/metasploitable3-win2k8`.
4. Use `vagrant plugin install vagrant-reload` to install the reload vagrant provisioner if you haven't already.
5. To start the VM, run the command `vagrant up win2k8`. This will start up the VM and run all of the installation and configuration scripts necessary to set everything up. This takes about 10 minutes.
6. Once this process completes, you can open up the VM within VirtualBox and login. The default credentials are:
    - Username: `vagrant`
    - Password: `vagrant`

### ub1404 Development and Modification

Using Vagrant and a lightweight Ubuntu 14.04 vagrant cloud box image, you can
quickly set up and customize ub1404 Metasploitable3 for development or
customization. To do so, install Vagrant and a hypervisor such as VirtualBox,
VMWare, or libvirt.

Install the relevant provider plugin:

    # virtualbox
    vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest

    # libvirt
    vagrant plugin install vagrant-libvirt

Then, navigate to the [chef/dev/ub1404](chef/dev/ub1404) directory in this repository.
Examine the Vagrantfile there. Select a base box that supports your provider.

Metasploitable ub1404 uses the vagrant `chef-solo` provisioner. Configure the
chef_solo block in the Vagrantfile with the metasploitable chef recipes that you
desire -- you can browse them in the [chef/cookbooks/metasploitable](chef/cookbooks/metasploitable)
folder. Or, add or edit your own cookbook and/or recipes there.

From the [chef/dev/ub1404](chef/dev/ub1404) directory, you can run `vagrant up`
to get a development virtual ub1404 instance. After the initial `up` build and provision,
when you edit the chef runlist or when you edit a chef recipe, run
`vagrant rsync && vagrant provision` from the same directory. For faster
development, you can comment-out recipes that you do not need to rerun -- but
even if they are all enabled, vagrant re-provisioning should not take longer than
one or two minutes. Chef aims to be idempotent, so you can rerun this command often.

Consider taking a snapshot (e.g., `vagrant snapshot save fresh`) before modifying
recipes, so that you can always return to an initial state (`vagrant restore fresh`).
If you want a _totally_ fresh snapshot, you can do the initialization with
`vagrant up --no-provision`, then take a snapshot, followed by `vagrant provision`.


## Vulnerabilities
* [See the wiki page](https://github.com/rapid7/metasploitable3/wiki/Vulnerabilities)

## More Information
The wiki has a lot more detail and serves as the main source of documentation. Please [check it out](https://github.com/rapid7/metasploitable3/wiki/).

## Acknowledgements
The Windows portion of this project was based off of GitHub user [joefitzgerald's](https://github.com/joefitzgerald) [packer-windows](https://github.com/joefitzgerald/packer-windows) project.
The Packer templates, original Vagrantfile, and installation answer files were used as the base template and built upon for the needs of this project.

Commit message:

If face some error when I run build.ps1 file so if found solution thats why I make some change and this is work correctly

README.md, after:

# Metasploitable3

Metasploitable3 is a VM that is built from the ground up with a large amount of security vulnerabilities. It is intended to be used as a target for testing exploits with [metasploit](https://github.com/rapid7/metasploit-framework).

Metasploitable3 is released under a BSD-style license. See COPYING for more details.

## Quick-start

To use the prebuilt images provided at https://app.vagrantup.com/rapid7/ create a new local metasploitable workspace:

Linux users:
```
mkdir metasploitable3-workspace
cd metasploitable3-workspace
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rapid7/metasploitable3/master/Vagrantfile && vagrant up
```
Windows users:
```
mkdir metasploitable3-workspace
cd metasploitable3-workspace
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rapid7/metasploitable3/master/Vagrantfile" -OutFile "Vagrantfile"
vagrant up
```

Or clone this repository and build your own box.

## Building Metasploitable 3
System Requirements:
* OS capable of running all of the required applications listed below
* VT-x/AMD-V Supported Processor recommended
* 65 GB Available space on drive
* 4.5 GB RAM

Requirements:

* [Packer](https://www.packer.io/intro/getting-started/install.html)
* [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/installation/)
* [Vagrant Reload Plugin](https://github.com/aidanns/vagrant-reload#installation)
* [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads), libvirt/qemu-kvm, or vmware (paid license required), or parallels (paid license required)
* Internet connection

### To build automatically:

1. - On **Linux/OSX** run `./build.sh windows2008` to build the Windows box or `./build.sh ubuntu1404` to build the Linux box. If /tmp is small, use `TMPDIR=/var/tmp ./build.sh ...` to store temporary packer disk images under /var/tmp.
   - On **Windows**, open powershell terminal and run `.\build.ps1 windows2008` to build the Windows box or `.\build.ps1 ubuntu1404` to build the Linux box. If no option is passed to the script i.e. `.\build.ps1`, then both the boxes are built.
2. If both the boxes were successfully built, run `vagrant up` to start both. To start any one VM, you can use:
    - `vagrant up ub1404` : to start the Linux box
    - `vagrant up win2k8` : to start the Windows box
3. When this process completes, you should be able to open the VM within VirtualBox and login. The default credentials are U: `vagrant` and P: `vagrant`.

### To build manually:

1. Clone this repo and navigate to the main directory.
2. Build the base VM image by running `packer build --only=<provider> ./packer/templates/windows_2008_r2.json` where `<provider>` is your preferred virtualization platform. Currently `virtualbox-iso`, `qemu`, and `vmware-iso` providers are supported. This will take a while the first time you run it since it has to download the OS installation ISO.
3. After the base Vagrant box is created you need to add it to your Vagrant environment. This can be done with the command `vagrant box add packer/builds/windows_2008_r2_*_0.1.0.box --name=rapid7/metasploitable3-win2k8`.
4. Use `vagrant plugin install vagrant-reload` to install the reload vagrant provisioner if you haven't already.
5. To start the VM, run the command `vagrant up win2k8`. This will start up the VM and run all of the installation and configuration scripts necessary to set everything up. This takes about 10 minutes.
6. Once this process completes, you can open up the VM within VirtualBox and login. The default credentials are:
    - Username: `vagrant`
    - Password: `vagrant`

### ub1404 Development and Modification

Using Vagrant and a lightweight Ubuntu 14.04 vagrant cloud box image, you can
quickly set up and customize ub1404 Metasploitable3 for development or
customization. To do so, install Vagrant and a hypervisor such as VirtualBox,
VMWare, or libvirt.

Install the relevant provider plugin:

    # virtualbox
    vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest

    # libvirt
    vagrant plugin install vagrant-libvirt

Then, navigate to the [chef/dev/ub1404](chef/dev/ub1404) directory in this repository.
Examine the Vagrantfile there. Select a base box that supports your provider.

Metasploitable ub1404 uses the vagrant `chef-solo` provisioner. Configure the
chef_solo block in the Vagrantfile with the metasploitable chef recipes that you
desire -- you can browse them in the [chef/cookbooks/metasploitable](chef/cookbooks/metasploitable)
folder. Or, add or edit your own cookbook and/or recipes there.

From the [chef/dev/ub1404](chef/dev/ub1404) directory, you can run `vagrant up`
to get a development virtual ub1404 instance. After the initial `up` build and provision,
when you edit the chef runlist or when you edit a chef recipe, run
`vagrant rsync && vagrant provision` from the same directory. For faster
development, you can comment-out recipes that you do not need to rerun -- but
even if they are all enabled, vagrant re-provisioning should not take longer than
one or two minutes. Chef aims to be idempotent, so you can rerun this command often.

Consider taking a snapshot (e.g., `vagrant snapshot save fresh`) before modifying
recipes, so that you can always return to an initial state (`vagrant restore fresh`).
If you want a _totally_ fresh snapshot, you can do the initialization with
`vagrant up --no-provision`, then take a snapshot, followed by `vagrant provision`.

## Error Solutions
> If you are facing problem when you run build.ps1 file you can use updatedBuild.ps1 file and make sure packer.pkr.hcl is configure correctly.

## Vulnerabilities
* [See the wiki page](https://github.com/rapid7/metasploitable3/wiki/Vulnerabilities)

## More Information
The wiki has a lot more detail and serves as the main source of documentation. Please [check it out](https://github.com/rapid7/metasploitable3/wiki/).

## Acknowledgements
The Windows portion of this project was based off of GitHub user [joefitzgerald's](https://github.com/joefitzgerald) [packer-windows](https://github.com/joefitzgerald/packer-windows) project.
The Packer templates, original Vagrantfile, and installation answer files were used as the base template and built upon for the needs of this project.
